Typeerror int object is not iterable : Root cause and Fix
0
Home
Data Science Library
Computer Vision
Data Preprocessing
Data Science Foundation
Statistics
Probability
Data Visualization
Machine Learning
NLP
Numpy
Pandas
Python
Data Science Latest Trend
Data Scientist Career Guide
Data Science Store
Data Science Trend
Udemy Courses
Data Science
Big Data
Chatbot
NLP
Web Framework
Contact Us
Blog
Write for us
contact@datasciencelearner.com
Search for:
Search for:
HomeData Science Library
Computer Vision	Data Preprocessing	Data Science Foundation
Statistics		Probability
Data Visualization	Machine Learning	NLP	Numpy	Pandas	Python
Data Science Latest Trend
Data Scientist Career Guide	Data Science Store	Data Science Trend
Udemy Courses
Data Science	Big Data	Chatbot	NLP	Web Framework
Contact UsBlogWrite for us
0
Search for:
HomeData Science Library
Computer Vision	Data Preprocessing	Data Science Foundation
Statistics		Probability
Data Visualization	Machine Learning	NLP	Numpy	Pandas	Python
Data Science Latest Trend
Data Scientist Career Guide	Data Science Store	Data Science Trend
Udemy Courses
Data Science	Big Data	Chatbot	NLP	Web Framework
Contact UsBlogWrite for us
0
Search for:
Python
Typeerror int object is not iterable : Root cause and Fix
READ NEXT
Doctest Python Implementation in Step By Step
Typeerror int object is not iterable occurs when try to iterate int type object in the place of an iterable object like loop, tuple, and list, etc.
In this article, we will see the root cause and fix for the error (int object is not iterable) in detail.
Typeerror int object is not iterable – (Root cause)
Let’s see a real scenario where we get this above error. Then see will discuss the root cause.
my_list=[1,2,3,4,5,6]
for i in len(my_list):
print(i)
When we run the above code, we get the below error.
typeerror int object is not iterable example
As we can see in the above example, We have used len(my_list) which is nothing but int type object. That’s the reason we get this error int object is not iterable. Anyways in the next section, We will see how to fix this.
Typeerror int object is not iterable (Fix)-
Well, We have two different ways to fix this.
1.Using list as an iterable object-
we can use list (my_list) directly in the place of using len(my_list). Just because the list is an iterable object.
int object is not iterable Fix-1
2.Using range() function-
Secondly, We can use range() function over len(my_list). Here is the way can we achieve it.
my_list=[1,2,3,4,5,6]
for i in range(len(my_list)):
print(my_list[i])
int object is not iterable Fix-2
One more important thing is that we are using the range function. Which is just an iterable object. Hence in the print statement, we use list subscription.
Conclusion-
See, There may be very real scenarios where we get the error int object is not iterable. But Underline root cause will be the same as we have mentioned in the above section. Hence We can use the above solution in those situations.
Int object is not iterable is one the most common error for python developers. I hope now you must solve the above error. Please let me know if you have doubts about this topic. Please comment below in the comment box.
Thanks
Data Science Learner Team
Total0 Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn BufferJoin our listSubscribe to our mailing list and get interesting stuff and updates to your email inbox.We respect your privacy and take protecting it seriously
Thank you for signup. A Confirmation Email has been sent to your Email Address.Something went wrong.
Tags:
python
python error
What’s your reaction?
Love0Sad1Happy0Sleepy0Wink0
Share on
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Pinterest
Share on WhatsApp
Share on WhatsApp
Share on Linkedin
Share on Email
Previous Article
Numpy zeros_like Function Implementation in Python with Examples
Next Article
Numpy Linspace in Python: Know np.linspace() in 4 Examples
FOLLOW SOCIALS
Facebook
like
Twitter
follow
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Disclaimer
Earnings Disclosure
© 2021 Data Science Learner. Site Hosted on Digital Ocean
Total0
Thank you For sharing.We appreciate your support.
Don't Forget to LIKE and FOLLOW our SITE to keep UPDATED with Data Science Learner
Follow @DataScienceL