Python TypeError: can only concatenate str (not "int") to str
SAP
SAP FI SAP CO SAP HR SAP SD SAP PS SAP Tcodes
SAP ABAP SAP MM SAP PP SAP PM SAP IM SAP Tables
SAP CRM SAP BODS SAP BO SAP Basis SAP HANA SAP GRC
Salesforce
Admin Developer Visualforce
Programming
Programming Bash Script C# C++ Dart Golang Java Julia Tutorial Kotlin Python R Scala Swift TypeScript
Mobile Flutter Tutorial Kotlin Android Web & Server JavaScript Tutorial NGINX NodeJS Tutorial GUI JavaFX Python Tkinter
Apache Hadoop Kafka Tutorial MXNet OpenNLP PDFBox Spark Tutorial Tomcat Tutorial
Databases CouchDB Tutorial MongoDB Tutorial MySQL PostgreSQL Tutorial Other Docker FastText NLP
Tools
JIRA Tutorial Tableau Tutorial
Informatica
Python Programming
Python Tutorial Install Python Install Anaconda Python Python HelloWorld Program Python Variables Python Datatype Conversion Python Comments Python If Python If Else Python While Loop Python For Loop Python Operators Python Functions Python Lambda Functions Python Builtin Functions
Python Collections
Python Strings Python Lists Python Tuples Python Dictionary Python Sets
Libraries
Python Numpy Tutorial Python SciPy Tutorial Python Pandas Tutorial Python Matplotlib Tutorial
Advanced Topics
Python Multithreading
Useful Resources
Python Interview Questions
Python TypeError: can only concatenate str (not “int”) to str
[Solved] Python TypeError: can only concatenate str (not “int”) to str In this tutorial, we will learn how to solve the Python TypeError: can only concatenate str (not “int”) to str. As the error message says, in Python, you can only concatenate string to string. But, if you got this message, may be, you are trying to concatenate an integer to a string. In the following example, we shall recreate the above error, and discuss on what went wrong in the eyes of Python. site = 'www.tutorialkart.com'
year = 2020
print(string + integer) Try Online If you run the above Python program, you will get the following output in Python terminal. Traceback (most recent call last):
File "d:/workspace/fipics/rough.py", line 3, in <module>
print(string+integer)
TypeError: can only concatenate str (not "int") to str The datatype of variable site is string and that of year is integer. Let us check that programmatically. site = 'www.tutorialkart.com'
year = 2020
print(type(site))
print(type(year)) Try Online You will get type of variables printed to the console. <class 'str'>
<class 'int'> Yeah! As the Python interpreter is saying, we are trying to concatenate string and integer. Solution So, how do we solve this issue and print a number along with the string or concatenate the number to a string. Convert the integer to a string using string class str().
In the following example, we shall concatenate the integer to string by converting the integer to a string. site = 'www.tutorialkart.com'
year = 2020
print(site+str(year)) Try Online Run the above Python program, and the program shall run without any errors. www.tutorialkart.com2020 Conclusion Concluding this Python Tutorial, please note that Python does not allow the concatenation of string with integer. And to solve this, you may have to exclusively convert the integer to a string.
❮ Previous Next ❯
➥ PDF Download - Python TypeError: can only concatenate str (not "int") to str
Popular Tutorials Salesforce Tutorial SAP Tutorials Kafka Tutorial Kotlin Tutorial Interview Questions Salesforce Visualforce Interview Questions Salesforce Apex Interview Questions Kotlin Interview Questions Tutorial Kart About Us Contact Us Careers - Write for us Privacy Policy Terms of Use ✎ Write Us Feedback
www.tutorialkart.com - ©Copyright - TutorialKart 2021